# Faros - lightweight Kuberentes cluster monitoring Operator


## Quickstarts


## Contributing

This project welcomes contributions and suggestions.

## Repository map

* .pipelines: CI workflows using Azure pipelines.

* cmd/faros: entrypoints.

* deploy: ARM templates to deploy RP in development and production.

* docs: Documentation.

* hack: Build scripts and utilities.

* pkg: RP source code:

  * pkg/api: RP internal and external API definitions.

  * pkg/backend: RP backend workers.

  * pkg/client: Autogenerated ARO service Go client.

  * pkg/database: RP CosmosDB wrapper layer.

  * pkg/deploy: /deploy ARM template generation code.

  * pkg/env: RP environment-specific shims for running in production,
    development or test

  * pkg/frontend: RP frontend webserver.

  * pkg/genevalogging: Daemonset for Geneva logging.

  * pkg/install: OpenShift installer wrapper layer.

  * pkg/metrics: Handles RP metrics via statsd.

  * pkg/mirror: OpenShift release mirror tooling.

  * pkg/monitor: Monitors running clusters.

  * pkg/swagger: Swagger specification generation code.

  * pkg/util: Utility libraries.

* python: Autogenerated ARO service Python client and `az aro` client extension.

* swagger: Autogenerated ARO service Swagger specification.

* test: End-to-end tests.

* vendor: Vendored Go libraries.


## Basic architecture

* pkg/frontend is intended to become a spec-compliant RP web server.  It is
  backed by CosmosDB.  Incoming PUT/DELETE requests are written to the database
  with an non-terminal (Updating/Deleting) provisioningState.

* pkg/backend reads documents with non-terminal provisioningStates,
  asynchronously updates them and finally updates document with a terminal
  provisioningState (Succeeded/Failed).  The backend updates the document with a
  heartbeat - if this fails, the document will be picked up by a different
  worker.

* As CosmosDB does not support document patch, care is taken to correctly pass
  through any fields in the internal model which the reader is unaware of (see
  `github.com/ugorji/go/codec.MissingFielder`).  This is intended to help in
  upgrade cases and (in the future) with multiple microservices reading from the
  database in parallel.

* Care is taken to correctly use optimistic concurrency to avoid document
  corruption through concurrent writes (see `RetryOnPreconditionFailed`).

* The pkg/api architecture differs somewhat from
  `github.com/openshift/openshift-azure`: the intention is to fix the broken
  merge semantics and try pushing validation into the versioned APIs to improve
  error reporting.

* Everything is intended to be crash/restart/upgrade-safe, horizontally
  scaleable, upgradeable...


## Useful links

* https://github.com/Azure/azure-resource-manager-rpc

* https://github.com/microsoft/api-guidelines

* https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/rest/api/cosmos-db

* https://github.com/jim-minter/go-cosmosdb
# faros
